independenrt of database design
A view in SQL is like a virtual table. It doesn’t store data itself but provides a way to 
look at data from one or more real tables in a structured way.
 It is a permanent object in the database, just like a table. However, unlike a table, a view does not store actual 
 data. Instead, it stores the SQL query used to generate the view.
If you often use a long query, you can save it as a view to make your life easier.
Data Abstraction: You can hide the actual table structure and provide a cleaner, user-friendly view.
copies content from another table
can perfrom any operations on views
it is a temporary storage unlike temporary

CREATE VIEW JohnOrders AS
SELECT order_id, order_date, total_amount
FROM Orders
WHERE customer_name = 'John';

to see all views in your database
SHOW FULL TABLES WHERE table_type = 'VIEW';

updating view
CREATE OR REPLACE VIEW view_name AS
SELECT column1, column2
FROM table_name
WHERE condition;

DROP VIEW view_name;

An updatable view is a SQL view where you can perform INSERT, UPDATE, or DELETE operations, and those changes
will directly affect the underlying table(s). However, not all views are updatable—there are specific rules 
and restrictions that determine whether a view can be updated.

if conditions are met then
UPDATE view_name
SET column1 = 'value'
WHERE condition;

INSERT INTO view_name (column1, column2)
VALUES ('value1', 'value2');

DELETE FROM view_name
WHERE condition;

restrictions
A view must be based on one table only. Views with JOINs or combining multiple tables are not updatable.
Views that use aggregate functions like SUM(), AVG(), COUNT(), etc., are not updatable.
If a view contains calculated or derived columns (e.g., price * quantity), it is not updatable.
Views with these clauses are not updatable because they change the structure of the result set.
All Columns Must Be from the Base Table:
Primary Key or Unique Constraint:
A view explicitly marked as WITH READ ONLY cannot be updated. 
Need 1 on 1 relation between row of view and row of base table
CREATE VIEW ReadOnlyView AS
SELECT emp_id, emp_name                         cannot update
FROM Employees
WITH READ ONLY;                                  

when u perform operations on view make sure it adheres the conditions of view during creation.
eg if view has year >2005
in operation u shouldnt add value<2005 or else that update will not get added

use -- with check option --in the end in view creation. it will throw an error

with local check option
used in nested views. the changes made in view2 will only affect to view2 and not view1.

with cascade check option
check is implemented for the parent as well

show full tables; shows base tables and views

show create view viewname; deinition of the view
drop view view_name;
create bor replace views;

deleting a row in a view can delete the corresponding row in the parent table, but this depends 
on the type of view and how it is defined.
Yes, inserting into or updating a view can also affect the parent table, but it depends on whether 
the view is updatable or non-updatable.

